README.md, before:

## About

gzinject is a wad editing utility, primarily used for patching N64 VC Emulators, and replacing the rom inside.  gzinject uses patch files to patch content files within the wad. A description of the patch file format can be seen in the [Patch](#Patch) section.  

## Executable 

To build your own, run ./configure, then make, and make install. See BUILDING for more instructions

Prebuilt Windows executable is contained under releases (https://github.com/krimtonz/gzinject/releases/latest)

## Usage 
```
Usage:
  gzinject -a extract -w SOURCEWAD [options]
  gzinject -a pack -w DESTWAD [options]
  gzinject -a inject -w SOURCEWAD -m ROM [options]
  gzinject -a genkey [options]
  gzinject --help
  gzinject --version

Actions:
  extract      extracts SOURCEWAD to directory
  pack         packs directory into DESTWAD
  inject       injects rom into SOURCEWAD
  genkey       generates wii common-key

Options:
  -i, --channelid=ID           New Channel ID For Pack and Inject actions (default: none)
  -t, --title=title            New Channel name for pack and inject actions (default: none)
  -h, --help                   Prints this help message
  -k, --key=keyfile            Location of the common-key file (default: common-key.bin)
  -r, --region=1-3             Region to use (default: 3)
  --verbose                    Print out verbose program execution information
  -d, --directory=directory    Directory to extract contents to, or directory to read contents from (default: wadextract)
  --cleanup                    Remove files before performing actions
  --version                    Prints the current version
  -m, --rom=rom                Rom to inject for inject action (default: none)
  -o, --outputwad=outwad       The output wad for inject actions (default: SOURCEWAD-inject.wad)
  -p, --patch-file=patchfile   gzi file to use for applying patches (default: none)
  -c, --content=contentfile    the primary content file (default: 5)
  --dol-inject                 Binary data to inject into the emulator program, requires --dol-loading
  --dol-loading                The loading address for the binary specified by --dol-inject
  --dol-after                  After which patch file to inject the dol, default: after all patches
```

## Patch
gzi files are text files with a command on each line.  A # starting the line indicates a comment.

line format:
ccss oooooooo dddddddd\
Where c indicates the command, s indicates the data size, o indicates the offset into the current file, and d indicates the data to replace with.

```
Commands:
  00: Begin using content file specified by d, offset and size are not used for this command
  01: lz77 decompress the current content file.  offset, size, and data are not used for this command
  02: lz77 compress the current content file.  offset, size, and data are not used for this command
  03: apply patch to currently selected file. If offset is higher than the file sizes, or a current file has not been selected, the patch is not applied

Sizes:
  01: a one byte value.  data & 0x000000FF is applied to content + offset
  02: a two byte value.  data & 0x0000FFFF is applied to content + offset
  04: a four byte value.  data is applied to content + offset
```


## Thanks/Authors

gzinject was primarily written by me.\n
Thanks to glankk (https://github.com/glankk) for providing memory/controller fixes for OOT as well as debugging, testing, and providing fixes for various errors\
The general workflow of extracting/packing the wad was taken from showmiiwads (https://github.com/dnasdw/showmiiwads/)\
AES encryption/decryption was taken from kokke (https://github.com/kokke/tiny-AES-c)\
SHA1 taken from clibs (https://github.com/clibs/sha1)\
MD5 taken from Alexander Peslyak http://openwall.info/wiki/people/solar/software/public-domain-source-code/md5

Commit message:

Update README for ISO support

README.md, after:

## About

gzinject is a Wii .wad and GameCube .iso editing utility, primarily used for patching N64 VC Emulators, and replacing the rom inside.  gzinject uses patch files to patch content files within the wad or iso. A description of the patch file format can be seen in the [Patch](#Patch) section.

## Executable 

To build your own, run ./configure, then make, and make install. See BUILDING for more instructions

Prebuilt Windows executable is contained under releases (https://github.com/krimtonz/gzinject/releases/latest)

## Usage 
```
Usage:
  gzinject -a extract -w SOURCEWAD [options]
  gzinject -a extract -s SOURCEISO [options]
  gzinject -a pack -w DESTWAD [options]
  gzinject -a pack -s DESTISO [options]
  gzinject -a inject -w SOURCEWAD -m ROM [options]
  gzinject -a inject -s SOURCEISO -m ROM [options]
  gzinject -a romc -m INROM -o OUTROM [options]
  gzinject -a genkey [options]
  gzinject --help
  gzinject --version

Actions:
  extract      extracts SOURCEWAD or SOURCEISO to directory
  pack         packs directory into DESTWAD or DESTISO
  inject       injects rom into SOURCEWAD or SOURCEISO
  romc         decompresses a romc compressed rom
  genkey       generates wii common-key

Options:
  -i, --channelid=ID, --gameid=ID
                               New channel ID for game ID For pack and inject actions (default: none)
  -t, --channeltitle=title, --gamename=title
                               New channel name or game name for pack and inject actions (default: none)
  -h, --help                   Prints this help message
  -k, --key=keyfile            Location of the wii common-key file (default: ./common-key.bin)
  -r, --region=1-3             Wii region to use (default: 3)
  --verbose                    Print out verbose program execution information
  -d, --directory=directory    Directory to extract contents to, or directory to read contents from (default: ./wadextract or ./isoextract)
  --cleanup                    Remove files before performing actions
  --version                    Prints the current version
  -m, --rom=rom                Rom to inject for inject action (default: none), also rom to romc decompress
  --iso-rom-path               For gamecube isos, path to the rom file inside the iso
  -o, --outputwad=outwad, --outputiso=outiso
                               The output wad or iso for inject actions (default: SOURCEWAD-inject.wad or SOURCEISO-inject.iso), also output for romc decompression
  -p, --patch-file=patchfile   gzi file to use for applying patches (default: none)
  -c, --content=contentfile    the primary wii content file (default: 5)
  --dol-inject                 Binary data to inject into the emulator program, requires --dol-loading
  --iso-dol-path               For gamecube isos, path to the dol file inside the iso
  --dol-loading                The loading address for the binary specified by --dol-inject
  --dol-after                  After which patch file to inject the dol, default: after all patches
```

## Patch
gzi files are text files with a command on each line.  A # starting the line indicates a comment.

line format:
ccss oooooooo dddddddd\
Where c indicates the command, s indicates the data size, o indicates the offset into the current file, and d indicates the data to replace with.

```
Commands:
  00: Begin using content file specified by d, offset and size are not used for this command
  01: lz77 decompress the current content file.  offset, size, and data are not used for this command
  02: lz77 compress the current content file.  offset, size, and data are not used for this command
  03: apply patch to currently selected file. If offset is higher than the file sizes, or a current file has not been selected, the patch is not applied

Sizes:
  01: a one byte value.  data & 0x000000FF is applied to content + offset
  02: a two byte value.  data & 0x0000FFFF is applied to content + offset
  04: a four byte value.  data is applied to content + offset
```


## Thanks/Authors

gzinject was primarily written by KrimtonZ (https://github.com/krimtonz) \
Thanks to glankk (https://github.com/glankk) for providing memory/controller fixes for OOT as well as debugging, testing, and providing fixes for various errors \
The general workflow of extracting/packing the wad was taken from showmiiwads (https://github.com/dnasdw/showmiiwads/) \
AES encryption/decryption was taken from kokke (https://github.com/kokke/tiny-AES-c) \
SHA1 taken from clibs (https://github.com/clibs/sha1) \
MD5 taken from Alexander Peslyak http://openwall.info/wiki/people/solar/software/public-domain-source-code/md5 \
GameCube ISO support by cadmic (https://github.com/cadmic)
